---
title: AUSTRALIAN REGIONAl MIGRATION VISA
date: 2020-02-12
excerpt: BENEFITS OF 491 VISA.
type: post
blog: true
tags:
  - Visa
  - RSM-491
---

### BENEFITS OF 491 VISA ( Skilled Work Regional Provisional Subclass Visa)

Before I'll outline the benefits of this visa subclass, let me unmask some essential areas of this visa subclass to help buttress your understanding about 491 visa. The 491 Visa ( Skilled work regional provisional visa) as we know, is the replacement of subclass 489 Visa. Subclass 491 Visa enables all eligible skilled workers to work, live and study in a designated regional area in Australia for 5years, for holders of this visa subclass, it gives you the privilege to apply for a permanent residence visa after 3 years.

More so, you need to know that applicants for this visa must be nominated by an Australian State or territory government agency or be sponsored by an eligible family member residing in a designated regional area. Also note that, submission of expression of interest (EOI) in the skill select, is of significance for your invitation to apply for this Visa.

The skilled work regional provisional visa is divided basically into two streams which is, **STATE SPONSORED and FAMILY SPONSORED STREAMS**.

#### 491 VISA (STATE SPONSORED STREAM)

The state sponsored stream visa must:

- Be ponsored by a state or territory government
- It must be five (5) years.
- point tested
- Must be under 45 ( exemptions apply)
- Must live in a designated regional area to be eligible to apply for PR.
- Must meet Health and Character requirements.
- Must prepare for a positive skills assessment, if required.

#### 491 VISA(FAMILY SPONSORED STREAM)

In this stream the family member must be:

- An eligible relative.
- A family member living in a designated regional area.
- Be under 45 ( exemptions apply).

#### KEY BENEFITS OF 491 VISA

1. 15 points will be awarded to 491 visa applicants, so what you need is 50 points on your own to make it 65 points.
2. Priority processing of regional applications.
3. You are eligible to move between regions.
4. When you reside in regional areas, you're entitled to incentives.
5. Criteria by state is a bit relaxed.
6. International school fees may be waived for the children of the applicants.
7. Medical facility
8. Number of occupation ( available number of occupation is 504)
9. More places allocated ( The department has allocated 15,000 places for this visa)

For inquiries and assistance, you can reach out to us for clarity.
