---
title: SUBCLASS 189 VISA SKILLED MIGRATION VISA

date: 2020-02-9 21:50:21
type: post
blog: true
excerpt: AUSTRALIAN SUBCLASS 189 VISA (PERMANENT SKILLED MIGRATION VISA)
tags:
  - 189
  - Visa
---

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBCLASS 189 VISA (PERMANENT SKILLED MIGRATION VISA)

Talking about 189 Visa, it is imperative we put to cognizant some key requirements such as the eligibility requirements, main features, point score applicable to this visa subclass and the process test occupations. The permanent skilled visa subclass is considered the most beneficial visas subclass that contains all the benefits of permanent residency without any limitations. What this means is that, this visa subclass is advantageous to migrants that would want to live and work in Australia.

The skilled independent visa is based on point test system and does not require any sponsorship from Australian state or territory government or relatives in Australia. The important thing about this subclass 189 visa, is that, it's a permanent skilled visa that allows Skilled workers to live and work permanently anywhere in Australia.

Basically there are two streams available for subclass 189 visa, which include:

1. Point tested stream and
2. New Zealand stream ( i.e available only for New Zealand Citizens)
   However, we will throw more light on the point tested stream and will be addressing issues that are most commonly asked by clients and registered migration agent in migration law.
   The key requirements are:
3. Have positive skills assessment in your nominated occupation.
   2.Your occupation must be on a medium to long term skills list (MLTSST).
4. Lodge and expression of interest (EOI) can be invited to apply
5. Meet the point test past mark of minimum 65 points and much more to get an invitation.
   5.Also not have had a visa cancelled or a previous visa application refused since your last substantive visa you held if you are in Australia.
6. You must have competent English, that is IELTS score of 6 or PTE score of 50 in each of the four components of the test, reading, writing, speaking and listening and any other official english test such as, CAE- Cambridge Advanced English, Occupation English test (OET) and TOEFL.
   7.Must meet health and character requirements.

Haven fulfilled the eligibility requirements, You can proceed to apply for skills assessment, then submit an expression of interest, then you wait for an invitation to apply for the visa, gather your documents and apply for the visa within 60 days of the invitation, that's; once you get an invitation you ensure that you apply for the visa before the expiration of the 60days (2 months).

Also, it is important you meet the minimum point test mark of 65 at the time you are invited to apply for this reason. The areas where you can score most points up to a maximum of 90 points are:
-- Your age
-- Work experience in the nominated occupation
-- English language skills and
-- Level of your qualification.
If you get maximum points in each one of these four, you can calculate up to a maximum of 90 points, which may be difficult though.

In most cases, some clients usually ask if a pass mark of 65 will automatically grant them an invitation to apply for the visa. The answer is "no" and it is important you understand that, obtaining a pass mark of 65 does not guarantee an invitation to apply for the visa, when you submit your EOI you will be ranked against other applicants and the Invitation to apply for the visa is often granted to the highest ranked clients by point score in a particular invitation round, which generally happens every month for each round.

With the invitation rounds as of 13th May 2019, those with a minimum point score of 80 were invited to apply for this visa. This score may vary from round to round of invitations to apply, so realistically speaking, for you to confidently expect an invitation to apply at this stage, you need to score between 80 and 90 points, as point score 80 was just an indicative. Now the question I know you would want to ask is, how can you possibly increase your score, this s very simple; there are various ways to help increase your score.
They include:

1. Scoring a high score for English Language requirement up to 20 points.
2. Completion of professional year in Australia can give you extra score
3. Meet the Australian study requirements.
4. Your partner skills can give you extra score.
5. Being accredited in a community language can give you extra point score.
6. Australia work experience can also help in increasing the overall score.

Though! as at 16th November 2019, there was a change to the points test system, targeted to benefit both singles and those who have a skilled spouse such as:

1. More points for having certain STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) qualifications, that's 10 points.
2. Additional points for applicants with a spouse or a de facto partner who have competent English, 5 points
3. Points for applicants who do not have a spouse or de facto partners, 10 points.
4. More points for having a skilled spouse or de facto partner and increase from 5 to 6 points.

However, for applicants that wants to relocate, live and work in Australia, they should not hesitate to seek for our professional and trusted services that will help in addressing all the complex challenges concerning Australian migration.
